Where do you begin an important project
like The Story of Josiah:
Love Jehovah; Hate What Is Bad?
You begin with prayerful consideration.
It’s a serious responsibility
—part of being loyal to Jehovah and his Word.
Therefore, many hours
of careful research goes into the first step:
writing a script.
The script is then visualized
through a step called storyboarding.
But it’s not just
the script and storyboarding
that requires attention to accuracy.
Costumes must be thoroughly
researched so that their components,
styles, colors, and even the types of fabric
appear as historically accurate as possible.
The production must also
accurately depict the times
being represented while making
the best use of donated funds.
How can this be done?
For The Story of Josiah,
the solution was to film at Bethel locations,
such as the studio spaces at Mount Ebo.
Set construction began early in 2018.
The production team designed
and built three flexible sets
so that with easy prop adjustments,
they could be in multiple locations.
Even the exterior Jerusalem city scenes
were filmed indoors.
Many brothers and sisters
from local congregations
served as extras for the crowd scenes.
With an eye to Biblical
and historical accuracy,
the makeup team transformed the actors
into characters from King Josiah’s time.
There were so many details to get right.
For a large portion of the drama,
filming in front of a green screen
enabled the visual effects team
to construct accurate environments digitally.
Many layers of character action,
called plates, were assembled
with digital environments
to produce complex visuals.
For the closing festival scene,
which required 14,000 Israelites
and many sheep,
3D models were made
and duplicated to simulate the large crowd.
In July 2018, the production packed up
and moved to an outdoor location
at Watchtower Farms in Wallkill, New York.
And action!
In August, the last scene was filmed
back at the Mount Ebo studio.
After 45 days of filming
and with over 4 terabytes
of footage captured,
the team had finished production.
The project moved to the editing
facilities at Patterson, New York.
But what more could be done
so that the account portrayed
could touch our hearts?
A colorist applied a look to the overall film
to enhance the picture’s quality and mood.
You have to get better.
I’m afraid of being alone.
Additional sound effects, such as footsteps
and the sound of dry grass being rustled,
were recorded to make the on-screen
action more natural and compelling.
Finally, the musical soundtrack was composed,
recorded, and added to the movie
to enhance the appeal to our hearts.
The work on The Story of Josiah:
Love Jehovah; Hate What Is Bad
was done to strengthen
Jehovah’s people worldwide.
You’re not alone.
Jehovah is with you.
This powerful story also assists parents
as they teach their children
the power of God’s Word and promise.
“These words that I am commanding you today
“must be on your heart,
“and you must inculcate them in your sons
“and speak of them when you sit in your house
“and when you walk on the road
and when you lie down and when you get up.”
“So that it may always go well with you
“and your sons after you,
“because you are doing what is good
and right in the eyes of Jehovah your God.”
The Story of Josiah has proven
to be yet another example
of how Jehovah continues to provide
abundant spiritual food and support
for his people worldwide.